sometimes um I'll be with like my
brother and they'll say like hey are you
okay and I'm like yeah and they're like
because you but because you've got tears
in your eyes right now and it looks like
you're about to cry and I'm like whoa
and I'm like [__] you're
right that's
weird hi Ali it's good to see you again
man yeah likewise I'm looking forward to
this where where are you you have quite
an interesting background it seems like
you're in a warehouse of I'm sorry or
I'm in a Wei work in London right now I
I flew in from New York this morning um
for yeah to spend some time in London
with the family awesome how I know
you've been traveling a lot this year
how has that been for you it's been
super fun yeah uh it's been a a few
months of kind of non-stop travel it was
meant to be a few months here and there
of like oh you know let's do Austin for
a few a few months and then La for a few
months but because my book came out like
last week it's just ended up being a
whole whirlwind of like book touring and
podcasting and stuff so now things are
finally settling down a bit it's nice to
be back in London for a little bit of
stability that's great yeah I know that
feeling when I was a venture capitalist
I would I think there was a one week
where I was like on three continents in
a week and it was just is quite brutal
quite brutal yeah um uh so do you want
to just tell everybody a little bit
about you and and give everybody some
backstory and then we'll jump into a
coaching session sounds good yeah so
backstory uh hi everyone my name is Ali
I am a doctor turned entrepreneur I
guess um I worked as a doctor in the
UK's National Health Service for two
years and while I was doing that I
started a YouTube channel on the side
which grew to like a million subscribers
in that time which was insane and then I
decided to quit my job uh and become a
sort of online course YouTuber author
type person and over the last six seven
years now I've been making videos about
productivity and personal development uh
which is why I very much Vibe with your
stuff Joe
and um my book Feelgood productivity
came out like last week and we found out
yesterday that we actually HD the New
York Times bestseller list which had
been a goal for a very long time um and
that was super nice but now I'm feeling
a bit of a sense of like what now it
feels like I've been building up for the
last three years to this big sneeze and
now and now the sneeze is out and now
I'm thinking hm where does my life kind
of go so I feel like this session with
you Joe might come at a good time
because I was Lally about this yesterday
being like what what the hell do I want
to do with my life now so okay so just
to is that how you want to spend your
time or is there anything else also
that's present that you would want to
address in the coaching session not we
might not get to any of them but just
out of curiosity sure I mean one thing I
was I'm very keen to talk to you about
I've listened to a bunch of your
episodes around emotions and I think I
really struggle to feel my own emotions
and that when people ask me how do you
feel I'm like that that sent that phrase
does not even vaguely compute okay great
so then
um so that leaves us with emotions and
what do you want to do next great yeah
okay so let's let's start there
um what strikes me about you is that you
probably always know what to do next as
far as like like I I can't imagine that
there hasn't there's been like a month
of you really trying to figure out what
you're going to do next instead of like
you're actually doing something next so
I'm wondering how how right am I about
that assumption or what what what might
I be
missing yeah that's pretty spot on um
from like high school I knew I wanted to
get to med school med school itself is a
conveyor belt after that it's like you
become a doctor and it's conveyor belt
and like literally the week that I took
a break from medicine I got an email
from penguin saying do you want to write
a book and then that took over my life
and now we're three and a half years
later where I have no clear next thing
to do and it now feels feels like hm the
the possibilities have opened up a
little bit okay great and then so one of
the things that has changed is the fact
that like there's no conveyor belt
system here it hasn't just been an
opportunity that's dropped and that
that's what you do next but what I also
notice is that you're also in a place in
your life
where I'll say it like you probably have
most of what you thought you wanted when
you were in your early
20s yeah so um absolutely I I think for
for a long time I was facing the goal of
Financial Freedom and like four-hour
work week and all that stuff yeah and
now I'm kind of there so I'm like hm
comes next what comes next right so no
conveyor Bel so the rules of the game
are are are have changed and now and
just to some degree it sounds like there
is just no rules it's what do you
want yeah so what do you
want like don't if you if you don't
think about it as like this is what I
have to do next and you just think about
it in Gross wants what do you want
H I want I guess to continue to live
life on my own terms to not go back to a
day job um I really like teaching like
that's always been a thing that's sort
of lit me up inside when I can like
learn something cool and share it with
with someone
else um the the making of YouTube videos
itself as that vehicle for teaching less
fun now I've had another been doing it
for seven years but I really like the
idea of teaching in real life
I attended a Tony Robin seminar two of
them and I was like whoa that doing
stuff like that seems like it would be
fun um so I think there's something
around teaching like and and also living
life on my own
terms so what what if anything would
stop you from living life on your own
terms at this
point I have these um weird fears around
money I think okay so hold on stop right
there you stopped you closed your eyes
you went inward yeah what happened there
like tell me describe your internal
process was that a let me stop and think
and a whole bunch of thoughts move
through your system was that like a you
feeling your sematic experience what
what just happened
there uh
you asked what's stopping you from
living that and then I was like H that's
a good question I said what would what
could stop you oh what could stop yeah
um and I've not been asked that in that
form
before so I was like what could stop me
and then a yeah a bunch of like options
seemed to present themselves and I did
this I I did some like quick
calculations and sort of pointed at like
fear of running out of money or like
wanting desire to make more money as
being like a thing that
like tie that like sort of ties a bunch
of them together right so and and was
that a intellectual fully intellectual
process how sematic was it how emotional
zero sematic 100% intellectual
yeah right yeah apparently zero sematic
but your body took a very particular
form so like typically if I see you on
doing YouTube or or talking to you in
real life you can access emotion
incredibly quickly not emotion excuse me
in thoughts very quickly you can speak
very quickly and you and I I know by the
way that you're doing it that you might
not even know what you're about to say
but you can say it and like it can all
make sense and it can and you haven't
even said it before it's like Bam Bam
Bam Bam Bam without any of that this
that happened without any of the
stopping
contemplation so what what's the how
what made that
different if it wasn't sematic what made
it
different it's happening again now just
yeah yeah I I I I think what made it
different is
that I wanted to give a real answer and
not just uh
whatever was coming out of my mouth in
like presenter mode
yeah um and treating this like as if you
know I've got I've got Joe Hudson here
on the phone like let's let me make sure
I'm like giving something that that
feels real rather than I think often in
podcasts I'm I'm in like performance
mode or or or whatever so I I I wanted
to make sure I wasn't trying to I wasn't
bullshitting myself I wasn't I wasn't I
wasn't bullshitting you here yeah so
just to say what I noticed you say you
said I wanted to make sure it felt I it
feels like something real literally
using the word feel
and to do that you actually put yourself
in your body went into a very particular
position that was unique from this other
position I I just want to mark that
we'll get to it later but I just want to
mark it and then uh go back so so the
big thing is that I'm now going back to
the to the conversation we were having
before which was that that there's a
money fear that you have that um that
maybe I won't be able to live life on my
own terms if for whatever reason this
money thing goes away and so my question
for you then my question for you then
is if that fear existed in your system
before you knew what money was what
would that fear be
called
some sort of fear of not being
safe yeah so I want you to take take a
moment and in and we that was the first
way to ask the question I'm gonna ask
the same question in a in a slightly
different way which I want you to have
the experience of lack of safety around
money oh all this money might go away or
I have to make sure I get I keep enough
money just close your eyes and just tell
me don't even tell me just feel what it
happens in your body when you think
about
it and now without a a single thought
whatsoever Trace that to the very first
time you felt that s that particular set
of
Sensations and what's the story if any
that comes up when you think about not
think about feel this set of Sensations
in your early
childhood
so what's what's happening inside you
right now is it that you came up with
the idea and said that didn't make sense
or you're like nope it's not happening
or what's what's going on yeah I'm
trying to vividly imagine the feeling of
like running out of money and like I'm
not like feeling anything I'm just like
I I I I'm I feel like I'm sort of
like come on imagine the feeling imagine
the feeling like feel something God damn
it feel something and it's like right no
yeah okay so do that again find the
sensation of you looking for a feeling
in not being able to get it like you're
doing what what is that like in your
body not not
the sensation of fear but the sensation
of trying to get there and not get there
yeah it's a bit of a constriction in
like my sort of belly button type
area great so and I just want to teach
you one more little itty bitty trick do
the same thing again and and go ahead
and feel what's in your and now I want
you to lift your chin up like lift your
chin little
more yeah like that great and now I want
you to lower your chin
and tell me what happens in your ability
to feel in your
body I feel like the the feeling is
stronger when I'm sort of like doing
this
yeah yes that is that would be most of
the literature would say that and what I
noticed is when you talked about I love
that literature peu you're like
literature that the the the uh when you
did the first time when you were feeling
into like the loss of money in your
system your chin was doing
this your chin was Raising and when you
were like let me find the real answer
your chin went down so if you watch back
the video you'll just notice and one of
the main things that happens is that the
one of the two ways we stop emotions in
our body is raise our chin which is why
a definition say of narcissism that some
people have for narcissism um
is um and narcissism is a very
misunderstood word but uh is is
basically not being able to feel your
emotions and you'll notice that like
when someone's acting like a narcissist
in a movie they'll put their chin up
it's kind of part of the part of the
deal if you look at like a famous
narcissist when you actually see them
their chin is
up so just say that the other one is
holding the jaw it's like keeping the
jaw tight that's another one that people
use to not feel emotions is to to to
clamp the jaw just just a sematic little
trick for you um okay so it's this kind
of what you said was and I'll stop going
meta for a second we'll just actually
deal with the the thing itself uh
so what you you're in this new
transition you have
a uh you've got what you wanted so you
have that experience and there's no
automatic conveyor Bel next thing that's
happening
and there is this money fear that's that
drives some of what you want which is to
be able to maintain your life and then
the other part that you notice that you
want is teaching but online teaching is
not as as exciting
as as as the idea of at least in person
and then on a non-b buus level what are
what are other goals that are just
apparent to you if
any I want to uh get into the best shape
of my life take my health more seriously
yeah um I want to host six mini
adventures with friends family and put
of connect people together those are the
kind of big other ones what i notic is
everything that all of your goals are
about
connection connection to yourself or
connection to
others yeah incl including teaching in
person is a far more connecting
experience than teaching
online yeah so thought that that way
yeah so so if we if we if we assume that
we I'm not going to say that that's
right by any church but if we assume
that for a second and you think about
your
career give me five ways that you that
the experience of your career could feel
far more connecting
[Music]
connected more inperson stuff with my
team like I really enjoyed it when I was
in London we were all in person and now
we're kind of remote and digital
nomading but like I miss hanging out
with the team in person think definitely
more real life teaching I used to do a
lot of that when I was in med school and
then sort of got away from it with the
whole online world and I I'd like to get
back to that h I'd like the teaching to
connect more with myself in terms of the
things that are alive for me in a given
moment rather than the things that I
think will drive clicks and views for
the algorithm in a given moment
yeah I like the idea of building a sort
of online community type thing we're
sort of toying with this idea that seems
like it could be fun and quite
connecting and I like the idea of doing
what the like doing like life coaching
East types sessions with people but like
helping them boost their productivity or
like overcome procrastination or things
like that that feels like oh that would
be a fun way of doing content in a sort
of connecting e type way that also then
is really helpful for people to see sort
of the behind the scenes of how I would
coach someone to be more productive for
example great and and out of curiosity
how how much of that um actually excites
you like you'd be like oh that'd be cool
if that all happened or is those were
just the that was the brainstorm how
much of them excite you like if I could
click my fingers and all those things
happened how many would you be like yeah
cool uh basically all of them um okay
the working with the team in person one
less so because I'm like I I also want
to travel and do the digital nomat thing
so it's like this bit of logistical
stuff around there but it'd be really
cool to have the community to do some
inperson productivity seminars to like
do this coaching e type stuff and to
make videos that I feel like making
rather than videos that I feel like I
should make because the algorithm or
whatever wants me to right and and just
on that part about the team if you if I
set my fingers and there was like a
10day period every quarter where you all
sat down and were together connected
working together how how would that feel
oh that's great we're we're doing that
already so yeah it's so fun I look
forward to those yeah okay great great
yeah so so it seems like what I notice
is your natural your natural your
natural progression is
is to move into something that's more
connective
so here's my question for you how do you
connect more right now without changing
anything that you're doing meaning
you're not going to get off the podcast
and like go and like sit in yoga mudra
and do breath work like how right now do
you connect
more like right now in this moment
correct
yeah h
the thing that's coming to mind is sort
of um a sense of connecting with my
internal self or something and like
trying to speak from the heart rather
than from the head while we're having
this
conversation
yeah sounds good yeah so I just want to
note that means again putting attention
into your
body not just the intellectual process
yeah yeah yeah and I'm like as you as
you asked that question I'm like hm
I'm like paying attention to like my
feet on the floor and like oh yeah I've
got my hands on the table and stuff
right that sort of that thing that eot
toll talks about is just like sort of
feel feel what's happening in your body
and I'm like oh yeah I I don't do that
by default um right so that was a nice
reminder so like yeah I'm sitting here
right now and I want to note a it took
no energy if anything I saw it take less
energy from you and and you just said
feel my body I I just want to keep on
talking about the feeling as I see it
come up yeah yeah so
so if I could click my fingers right now
and all of a sudden you were just 10%
more connected in everything you did in
the same way that you just became 10%
more connected in sitting and talking
with me so no ma nothing in your life
changed as far as the practicalities and
tactical what I do today but when you
got on YouTube it felt 10% more
connected when you interacted with your
team it 10% wor when you're writing your
book it was 10 when you're doing the
next podcast
interview how how exciting would that be
that would be pretty freaking cool yeah
it feels like so easy why don't I just
do
that what do you think it would do for
your career your money just to like to
address the money fear what do you think
it would do we obviously have no idea
but if you were to guess
if I were to put money on it it
would grow the business without me
having to think too hard about it
because I'd be operating from a place of
like connectedness or something yeah
yeah t typically I noticed that as a
public figure people want to be to be
able to connect with you and so your
connection your connection with yourself
is a
big component in that
recipe yeah I was I did a live stream
about an hour ago just on my second
YouTube channel where I was just having
a bit of a chat with whoever was there
and people were like you know we want to
see more of your life and I was like but
I don't know what would be helpful for
you guys and they're all like no just
like talk about anything we want to hear
about you like come on man um so that
kind of speaks to this idea yeah exactly
so so what if that's instead of the
career goal being like the typical
goals write a book make x amount of
dollars get enough clicks what if the
goal
was be 10% more connected in everything
I
do that would be really cool that would
be very interesting to try
out
yeah yeah yeah so I'm gonna ask this
weird this really weird
question give me just the thing about
the business like for some businesses it
would be billing I don't think you do a
lot of billing but
like one of those
rote things that your business does that
hopefully you've outsourced or delegated
at this point
but but either way is something that
your business does is just kind of wrote
mundane non- exciting
thing uh filming sponsorship segments
for the videos and for the podcast
awesome I want you to do two things one
is I want you to think about how to do
that in the most connected way possible
not meaning as a whole system not just
you being there doing the sponsorship
but like the whole organization being
deeply connected in that process and I
want you to do it while being connected
with
yourself yeah I can think of some ways
to do that yeah I love how quickly your
mind just your mind works so fast it's
so cool to watch it so give me give me
give me the ideas that just came just by
doing that little experiment what ideas
just showed up oh the ideas were like um
working with sponsors and actively
reaching out to sponsors that we really
Vibe with um immediately Lululemon came
to mind because like every piece of
clothing I own is Lululemon and we just
never bothered reaching out to them to
be like hey do you do you guys want to
work together and stuff because this
something was holding us back and things
that would be pretty connected um
actively reaching out to all of the te
companies whose stuff I actually use
rather than just worrying about all the
inbound from people who's trying to
convince us to use their stuff and you
know all that and then
if at one point I had the weird thought
that like I would love to do sponsored
segments where I I say a poem about the
the thing or it like Rhymes in some kind
of way or I turn it into a song while
playing on the guitar and then a friend
told me no that's bad for conversions
don't do that and I was like okay I
guess I won't do that but actually that
would be a way more fun and interesting
way to do a sponsored segment if I'm
like composing song plus chat GPT really
helps with like rhing stuff these days
so those things came to mind yeah great
and totally as you know in this job it's
experiment after experiment is what you
learn so it all sounds like great
experiments yeah so look at look at just
what happens so even you could take even
the thing that is uh most mundane that
you dislike the most put it through this
goal about how does this become how do I
do this in a more connected way while
being connected thinking about it and
immediate medely it Sparks this another
level of creativity I mean you're
obviously very creative in everything
you do to come up with that much content
there's just a huge creativity there but
all of a sudden it Sparks this whole
another level of creativity
that right so that that same lens could
be put at everything you
do how do I buy camera equipment how do
I
like everything you do there can be this
question of like how do I maximize the
[Music]
connection
sick okay I need to remember this
somehow it's recorded you're fine 20
goal even now I'm just like sort of I've
got my hands on the table and I'm just
sort of like noticing my fingers on the
table and I I never notied my fingers on
the table but like yeah for the last
like five minutes I've been like hm
there there there part of me that's like
keeping that keeping some percentage of
my attention on that while also talking
to you and I'm finding that as that's
happening like
my uh you know I was feeling a bit of
like oh [__] you know I hope this
episode's good enough for Joe to put on
the Pod I hope I don't embarrass myself
all of that's gone I'm just like we're
just having a chat now yeah yeah
so one one technical hack there's this
great uh app called Yap
um and it just reminds you I have a
silent phone that does almost it makes
no sounds the only sound it makes is Yap
which is really great because then I
don't get bothered and like I would for
you right now I'd put on that Yap chat
the question would just be how do I be
10% more uh connected right now and that
would just be this automatic reminder
that happens the other thing that I'll
I'll say is that as you move away from
the brain and all the intellect stuff
and you move into your body you'll start
to be able to trust that your body will
catch stuff that you're you don't need
to write on a
list what like what if you're all in the
head then there's a lot of like oh I
have to capture this but if you actually
allow it to hit your body and resonate
in your body oftentimes that works
better than a list because you write it
on a list but do you remember to read
the list and whatever you know happens
yeah it's the whole thing of like how do
I make sure I remind myself to then like
go on that Google doc or whatever the
thing was exactly that whole thing yeah
so I just say it is that as you're start
as you're starting to learn about the
feeling in the sematic world it's it's
it's uh detracting to then immediately
go and write it down if it prevents the
integration of it in the body so let it
integrate in the body and then go write
it down meaning like right now you are
feeling what it is to be 10% more
connected in our conversation
together keep keep that keep the
attention mention in the body and and
then you'll remember it more likely than
if you write it on a
list nice thanks
yeah cool so the only thing that I see
is the open thread that we have left is
um uh and I'll check before we go here
but it's just the the feeling piece of
it um so any other questions about uh
what to do next in your career is like
how what what if anything is still open
there honestly I think even just like
running it through that filter of like
what does 10% more connected look like
I've you know I've got the answers I can
yeah that's not a CO yeah okay rock and
roll yeah thank you easy peasy okay so
then on the feeling of emotion stuff
yeah so the the question I have for you
is how much of it is conscious and how
how much of is it that you're not
feeling your body and how much of it is
that you're not aware that you're
feeling how much of it is that you're
not feeling and how much of it is is
that you're not aware that you're
feeling I'm not sure but sometimes um
I'll be with like my brother and they'll
say like hey are you okay and I'm like
yeah and they're like because you but
because you've got tears in your eyes
right now and it looks like you're about
to cry and I'm like whoa and I'm like
[__] you're
right that's
weird and then they'd be like how you
feeling and I'm like I don't know like
I'm I've got tears in my eyes like I'm
clearly and and then and then I try and
sort of like reverse engineer like what
that there must been something that's
come up that's triggered me in some way
but I would just have no sense of like
feeling in the body any different to
what I was like 10 seconds ago but now
but I can feel like my eyes like sort of
screwing up a little bit and like the
you know yeah stuff okay so the body is
doing something it's there is an
awareness thing that's happening so I
just a couple intellectual pieces on
this the the first intellectual piece
is if you take a kid who's physically
abused and you put a quarter in one hand
and a key in another hand without them
seeing it as an adult they won't be able
to tell you which hand has the key and
which hand has the
quarter because the the human system is
really smart if something is too painful
it cuts off and so most of us me me
particularly in my journey I couldn't
have told you what emotion I was having
at all and I wasn't particularly
expressive of
them because emotions were way too
painful there was too much emotional
abuse and emotional abuse is a word that
I think is I I throw it around very
easily and what I mean by emotional
abuse is um excuse me um what I mean by
emotional abuse is that somebody held
you responsible for their emotional
state or somebody told you the emotions
that you were having were not okay to
have those are the two ways of like so
jealousy would be a form of emotional
abuse um don't be so excited Johnny
don't cry Johnny whatever all those
things would be forms I would I in my
definition those would be emotional
abuse and so the first step in in
overcoming that is just learning to be
aware
of of of the emotional experience and
for some people yeah and for some people
um like for me the way I first started
to learn that I was in fear is that I
had binary thinking I was so aware of my
thought process that I was like oh I
notice I'm thinking black or white right
now I must be in fear and then it was
later that I learned oh this is the
sematic experience of fear in my system
so I I looked at the way my thought
pattern showed fear before I actually
learned how to feel it
somatically but my body was in fear
either way so I I just give that as a
background that hopefully may be helpful
so and I noticed that there's a a way
that you know being real you put your
chin down you feel more you allow
yourself to be in the
body and last
part if you have a practice of just that
idea of like oh some of my attention is
in my body while we're sitting here
talking
together everything else will take care
of itself like we don't need to have a
session if you just keep 10% of your
awareness in your body as much as
possible
everything else will take care of itself
really there's no there's no need yeah
it's it's an it's one of the most
powerful practices but most people can't
pull it
off it'll the the transformation and
change can happen so rapidly that they
will that they will leave their body
because it's too much for them to to
feel but but anyways just just know that
that's like the the the that's the hack
and I know you're good at
yeah so so if there's anyone you'll be
able to do it um okay so now all the
intellectual stuff is aside
um what what what kind of a what kind of
if right now you start balling crying
just like weeping and crying over the
fact that you weren't allowed to have
the emotions because as a child because
survival was such a bigger priority and
so your parents couldn't see your
emotional life and instead all they
could see was preparing you to
survive for instance I'm I'm not saying
that's true but uh how would you feel
about well you just cried on this
podcast and everybody and all your in
your you know the two million
subscribers all knew that you cried
about this pain in your
life
how how what what would be the what
would be your reaction to
that that would be kind of cool if I had
such a an emotional response to like a
thing I'd be kind of
intrigued okay yeah great so there's not
there's not like a I need to be seen not
sad or what what's the emotion that if
happened right
now you would be like if any you would
be like oh I I shouldn't have done that
on on a
podcast anger fear sadness yeah
excitement exuberance joy
peace I'm I'm cool with all those um oh
the the the only thing that comes to
mind is like I wouldn't want to say
something bad about like someone I love
in public on a podcast or something it's
like but there's not much risk of that
happening but any kind of em I I would
love to express emotional emotions
openly on a podcast that would be
perfect okay great outside of the
emotion that you just expressed for
instance uh what emotion did I just
Express yeah what what emotion did you
just
Express I'll do it for you right here
this is what like I would I would love
to have a whole bunch of emotions on a
podcast that would be great yeah that
would be great
emo yeah I guess that was like joy joy
yeah oh my goodness emotions sign me up
yeah right even some excitement in there
I would
say like it's like there is right and so
did you know that I was in excitement
and joy when I did it
cuz you were smiling and your voice went
like louder and you moved around a
little bit and stuff right which if you
can't if you're on the podcast just
listening you can't you can see Ali
doing this actually right now in his
body he's
mimicking and you're liter I don't know
if you were aware of it but you were
literally like jolting and moving and
smiling and so somehow or another your
body knows how to do it when you're even
just talking about
it yeah okay what's your what's your
okay go ahead like I don't have an issue
with I think with experiencing positive
emotions but it's like okay no I'm I'm
going to rephrase that I don't I don't
think I have an issue with like feeling
excitement I I I do often feel
excitement but emotions
like like love and or anything around
like sadness or sorrow or like you those
like those are the ones where I I'm I'm
not sure how I
feel if you had to if you had to tell me
the difference between sorrow and love
what would it
be
H I would say that love is sort of like
this subtle positive glow and sorrow is
like a subtle negative antique glow or
something okay so we're going to do one
of the great things about doing any kind
of emotional work is you can experiment
like real time and it's really great so
what we're going to do is we're going to
find a memory that brings up love for
you and then we're going to find a
memory that brings up sorrow for you
and when you're going to catch one in
your body then you're going to catch the
other one in your body and you're going
to go back and forth for a while and
then we'll I'll ask you a question or
two what um so come up with a memory you
can share or not share doesn't matter
that uh the immediately brings up a a
the feeling of love in your system maybe
it's a dog or brother younger sibling
cousin yeah yeah okay so go ahead and
and feel that like have that memory and
just notice what happens in your
system great that's enough okay yeah and
then I want you to think of a a a memory
that sorrow loss of something
or so I noticed that your chin just went
up oh
interesting
memory of
Sorrow I have this weird sensation of
like oh you know I don't want to go
there but that's weird but I do want to
go there of course I want to go there
um somebody taught you it wasn't safe at
some point or the world in general
did so there's a there's a automatic
reaction to it that is yeah great
experience of
Sorrow okay I've going to experience of
Sorrow
okay so bring yourself totally into your
body again you're a little bit
out there you
go okay now I want you to go back to
love
and now I want you to go back to
Sara one more time back to
love
and back to the memory of
sorrow and now I want you to hold both
of them at the same time both of those
two Sensations
simultaneously
great so what if any difference did you
find between love and sorrow and then
what happened when you brought them
together so for sorrow I definitely felt
some sort of
thing around
like here I
think um so you're just for everybody
what I'm hearing you say is like right
around your is it below your belly
button or above
above my belly button just sort of like
below sort of towards the bottom of my
left kind of Rib Cage Great okay um like
a sort of squeezy feeling there
yeah I don't really know I felt anything
somatically for the
love thing it did feel like that that
feeling eased up a bit and so when I was
going in between the two as like when I
was thinking sorrow is like the squeez
happened a bit more and when I was
thinking love it sort of eased up and
when I think saw the squeez and then it
eased up again and when he said holding
both at the same time I sort of I felt
the squeez but I sort of took her sort
of breath in and yeah then it was like
the squeez was still there but like the
the breath in was kind of like
this like almost like this lightess at
the same
time yeah
so and and so how much would you say
that the love created a sense of
spaciousness around other stuff besides
just the squeez or was the spaciousness
just H how much was the spacious or how
much of the relief was just around the
relief SLS spaciousness was just around
the squeezy part how much of it was just
general oh interesting now that you
mention it like when I think of the love
thing there's a bit of like a sort of an
expansion out sort of from I guess lower
ribs kind of outwards a little bit Yeah
but but I'm not sure if that's just cuz
I was taking a breath in maybe I don't
know yeah the the thing about emotions
is that they do affect your muscles so a
breath in you if you're anxious you stop
breathing like anxiety affects the
breath love affects the
breath Joy affects the breath it affects
the body position it affects right so
any emotion that we might
have any emotion that we withhold
requires us to uh constrict our muscles
in a particular way so it's what one of
the things when people look at me
coaching and they're like how the hell
did he just do that I can do it because
I can notice oh someone's head is up
there they're cutting off an emotion or
they have this line right here in their
forehead which means they have repressed
anger or blah blah blah there's they
hunched back they had a highly critical
parent there's all sorts of oh tells
that people have in their body
yeah so there there so anyway so there's
the idea that you breath in and emotion
are different is not is not
particularly you know the most effective
way to look at it so if
if so so the question I I the question I
have is for you
is um if you if you had to guess what
made it that sorrow was something that
you didn't want to feel
um so the the Sor I'm I'm not sure but
the the sorrow experience I was thinking
of was you know I had this big crush on
this girl in my first year of med school
and then she left the university for
various reasons and I was like
heartbroken and I genuinely felt pain in
my body and I was like whoa and like she
was like my best friend as well and it's
like I'm never going to have friends
again uh and
then I sort
of talked to myself out of that by
bringing to mind dozens of counter
examples of say sit of that I actually
did have friends and actually life was
going to be fine
and then like
just sort of buried I think maybe buried
that feeling of sorrow and sort of
replaced it
with
h if I if I had to if I had to
psychotherapies myself replaced it with
a drive to
succeed um right a drive to like like
you know this was very much unrequited
love she wasn't interested in me okay
that's fine let's freaking like dominate
the with my business and stuff um and
then right she came back to University a
year later and a female friend said oh
you know the way you get a girl to be
interested in you is to actively not be
interested in her and so I was like all
right you know at that point I didn't
have any affection for her then she
seemed to like me and weird kind of
dynamic and yeah but I don't know so I
just want to tie in somewhere in in your
college experience you made the choice
to have success over
connection and now here you are you've
got your success and you're like oh wait
I also want the connection piece yeah
that's
interesting yeah just wan to yeah yeah
yeah and so here here's the next
question for you
what everything your mind told you is
true you had friends you could continue
to make friends you were going to this
woman wasn't required for your happiness
all the
stuff how would you have allowed all
that truth to be there but not have it
repress your sadness your
sorrow yeah that's all true but I'm
[__]
sad yeah I
think at the time and maybe still to
this day I thought of sadness as being
not a good emotion to
have um and I think all the stoicism
Kool-Aid that I've been drinking was
like well we can control our responses
to things and like you know it's just a
story that you tell yourself so like you
you just replace the story blah blah
blah yeah um but I think if I were to
have heartbreak or sorrow
now I like the idea of sitting with it
and I I I had friends in school in
college who would like have like s songs
playlist on Spotify and I'd be like what
you have a sad song playlist like I mean
yeah the music's good like chasing cars
is a good song but like and they be like
yeah you know sometimes I'm feeling sad
and I just like play the sad songs and
I'm like that's so doesn't make sense
because now you're just wallowing in the
sadness and they're like yeah and I'm
like what is wrong with you but I now
kind of like the idea of like if I if I
feel sad it would be nice to actually
experience that and like wallow in the
sadness in in air
quotes what what what if it's not what
would be another word bes besides wallow
H in indulge or Revel or oh experience
or surf or enjoy yeah I like
saber sa oh that's nice Savor the
sadness yeah yeah that's part of the
human right so just as clear there's a
distinction it's true that if you make
meaning of certain things it will create
certain emotions in your body that's
there's no doubt about it and you can
change the meaning of something to
change but you can also just have an
emotion without a
meaning it's not required you don't have
to have a meaning yeah of
course mammals who don't think mammals
who don't have thought have
emotions yeah or at least yeah much
lesser thoughts at least you
know yeah
go ahead yeah go on one of the stories
that people oh please there's a bit of
lag okay is isn't there that thing that
like the I I I don't know where I was
reading this but like you you you only
experience an emotion for like 45
seconds and then to experience it for
longer requires you to reinforce the
story you're telling yourself about said
emotion I would say you've never
experienced an
emotion for more than a second a single
emotion for more than a second but
there's never been a moment of waking in
your life where you're not having an
emotional
experience is more of my the way I would
describe it there's never a
non-emotional experience that you're
having we're constantly in an emot like
we have an emotional thing happening
like a like music in the background it's
constantly there as long as we're
awake and it's never the exact same note
or the exact same instrumentation and
Note and everything like I've
experienced sadness thousands of times
but it always has a slightly different
seasoning to
it okay or it's a different combination
it's like a little more sadness and a
little less anger or whatever
yeah yeah so I'd say that's more of the
as far as telling the story to indulge
it there is something really really
important about that which
is you can be stuck a story and then
stuck in an emotional Loop for sure so
if I'm helping somebody learn how to
express their emotions which is not
something you can do on a podcast
um I might use a story to get them into
that emotional state but I I don't want
to reify the story is true all the
stories are false the story
that your sadness was going to last
forever and that she hurt you and that
she didn't want you and it was
unrequitted and that you had other
friends every single one of those
stories had some falsehood to it it and
there was no full truth in any of the
stories and so if you believe in a story
it can also stagnate an emotional
experience they they're they're very
related that
way but just as easily you can have a
similar emotional experience as for
instance for me um I had the kind of
reoccurring emotional experience of I
can't get my dad's love then I moved
away from you know which which was a
longing and with an unrequitted in it
and then you know I moved away my dad
wasn't there it wasn't reoccurring so I
just went I can't get money and it was
just the exact same emotional experience
but instead of not being able to get my
dad's love it became I can't get money
and so so you can you can have that you
can have a a a a rut of an emotional
experience and then change your story
around it to maintain the emotional
experience the reason that those the the
other side of it is told so well is
because most people who are really
really good at describing
[__] can see how the thoughts affect
their emotions not so much how their
emotions affect their
thoughts because they're more
intellectually
based there was a thing that came to
mind as you were saying that this sort
of um I can't get my dad's love I I
can't get money um in
that I feel like I have this constant
sense
of there is more that needs to be done
yeah um like you know we got the call
yesterday like oh congratulations you're
a a New York Times bestseller and I was
like you know my my brother was asking
how do you feel and I was like hm I feel
a sense of relief that like the work
that we put into this has paid
off but it wasn't a sense of
like oh okay I can chill out now it was
like well there's always more to be done
you know there's we we don't have any
recurring Revenue product so like let's
build this Community thing and like you
know like what are the goals like let's
get after it you know there was this
weird kind like and I think I'm a pretty
happy and content guy but I have this
conal of like dissatisfaction of like no
there's always more to be doing yeah and
almost
a I find it hard to take a break and
like give myself permission to Simply
read fiction or like just lie down that
just do nothing because there is there
is more to be done in terms of building
up our monthly recurring revenue and all
that crap to get
where to get to a place of
okayness I think to get to a place of
safy just to be clear I have to be not
okay to get to a place of
okayness Yeah by by definition somewhat
but yeah cuz if if I was okay then it's
like the reason to do stuff would be for
the
connection which would be quite a fun
reason to do
stuff for the connection for the fun of
it rather than because there is a lack
or a scarcity or a thing like yeah
yeah yeah there I see the click that's
it a and you were mentioning I was
mentioning my dad is that was that
relation did you notice that too that
somehow that was part of
for you to be okay with your mother or
father that there was always something
that needed to be done is that why that
triggered
that now that you mention it yeah okay
yeah yeah yeah I think the sense
of maybe I'm over therapizing myself but
like I remember when like growing up we
could never let our mom see us like me
and my brother I I could never let my
mom see me playing video games because
if she did there was always something
else to do there was always a chore in
the house that needed doing or like some
homework that needed doing or shouldn't
shouldn't you be starting for your exams
type thing yeah um and obviously that's
now different but it's still a sense of
man I can't continue playing bers Gate 3
because there's like brainstorming to do
about the next video or like building a
landing page for the next freaking
course that we're doing or or whatever
right yeah yeah yeah exactly the same
that's a hell of a 4 Hour Work
week
yeah love love the I work right so how
does that relate to um I don't have time
to feel because there's something that
has to be
done I don't have time to be sad over
this woman because I have to be
successful like how how how much does
that
[Music]
relate
yeah it relates in the sense of I you
know people often say you know you
should celebrate the wins and there's
part of me that says screw celebrating
the winds there's more to be
done
right
yeah what would celebrating your win
look like having just hit the New York
Times breast Celler what what what would
if you were to celebrate the win in the
most connected fashion possible what
would it look
like it would look like firstly sending
thank you messages and gifts to everyone
who's helped along the way and secondly
chilling out for a month and just like
binging a great fantasy fiction
series that would be super fun that
sounds really nice yeah yeah that would
be nice what was the emotion you had
during that experience when you were
thinking about it
your face changed color a little bit
your eyes did something I have a bit of
like wateriness in my eyes that's so so
strange a sense of like wow it's it's
called gratitude it's called
gratitude yeah the tears that's
gratitude oh is it okay
nice yeah just so you know
um yeah it was like a sense of like oh I
just didn't even remotely think that
that was an option because there's more
to be done but now that I'm thinking
I guess that is an
option let's say you let's say you did
it let's say you did it for a second
let's say you wrote all those notes you
spent that time in a deep gratitude for
each of the people and you showed them
that gratitude and you like totally
checked out with fiction for a certain
period of
time at the end of two years would you
be further ahead or farther
behind definitely further ahead yeah
yeah that's how important the emotions
are to your
productivity to actually like to stop
and say is all we did was say what's the
most connected way to do that you
connected with yourself immediately the
emotional experience of gratitude sh
showed up which showed you a path at
least of working with other people and
gratitude of giving yourself
rest
damn this is some good stuff
man thank you thanks for I seen you do
this on other people and I was
like I wonder what going on
here yeah wow so cool it's not just to
be clear it's not me doing it to you but
yeah it's it's me following you my
experience of it is far more me
following you
than yeah it's so cool to experience
anyone watching or listening to this
like this is pretty cool stuff you
started you what what the interesting
thing is I always know where the thing
end for anybody listening to this just
like a quick little thing I don't even
know if we captured it in the recording
but the very first thing you said was I
just finished the New York Times
bestseller list and now I'm thinking
what do I want to do next and so the the
very the very first thing you said was
the colonel always almost always is is
the colonel of what is being worked
[Music]
on just it's just a a fascinating thing
it's like people it I'm and that's why I
follow you you bring that up and I'm
like oh that's what we're here
for right like so that you you know it I
don't know
it that's so cool love
it total pleasure thank you so much a
pleasure yeah it's been
wonderful
[Music]